 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 3172 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-10-29 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. MP urges government to 'halt the genocide' in Gaza T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. An independent MP has used his maiden speech to urge the government to "halt the genocide" in Gaza by calling for an immediate ceasefire. Iqbal Mohamed, the newly elected MP for Dewsbury and Batley, made his appeal in the Commons chamber on Tuesday. During the speech he criticised the "double standards" of some politicians condemning Russia’s aggression in Ukraine, but then going on to "defend the most heinous crimes of Israel". Mohamed added the "ongoing genocide" had been a "huge factor" in his election to Parliament back in July’s General Election. He said: "When the Prime Minister endorsed the rights of the Israeli government to cut off water and electricity to the people of Gaza, people in Dewsbury and Batley said, 'No, not in our name'. "Mohamed was one of four pro-Palestinian Independent MPs who were elected after beating Labour MPs over the party's response to the crisis in the Middle East, which escalated last October when Hamas attacked Israel. He has since joined Shockat Adam, Ayoub Khan and Adnan Hussain in forming a parliamentary group headed by former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn. Mohamed went on to say in his speech that "most British people want an immediate ceasefire" and "an end to the UK's complicity". He said: "They are sick and tired of the double standards, with politicians lining up to condemn and sanction Russian aggression in Ukraine, yet defend the most heinous crimes of Israel. "The compassion for Palestinian lives is not inversely proportional to the compassion for Israeli lives or vice versa. "All lives are equal, and our compassion must also be equal. ”He also called on the government to "halt the genocide and to end the 76-year-old, long unlawful occupation". Opening his speech, Mohamed spoke of his pride in being "the second local, born and bred MP for Dewsbury" and the "eldest of six children born to Gujarati Indian immigrants". He also recalled when as a child he said he asked God to make him one of two things, either a parliamentarian or a Blue Peter presenter. He added that "if a Blue Peter producer is watching I'm still available for a guest appearance or a Christmas special". Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer has previously called for an immediate ceasefire, as well as immediate release of all hostages, and an immediate surge of humanitarian aid into Gaza. Listen to highlights from West Yorkshire on BBC Sounds, catch up with the latest episode of Look North or tell us a story you think we should be covering here. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 