 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 3198 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-10-19 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Netanyahu says he is undeterred after reported drone attack on his home T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said he is undeterred from his war aims following a reported drone attack on his private residence. "The attempt by Iran’s proxy Hezbollah to assassinate me and my wife today was a grave mistake," he wrote in a post on X. His office earlier said a drone was "launched towards" his residence in the northern coastal town of Caesarea on Saturday morning. Mr Netanyahu and his wife were not at home at the time, and no one was injured. Iran says Hezbollah was behind the reported attack, Iranian state news agency IRNA reported. Iran's mission to the UN was quoted as saying: "The action in question has been carried out by Hezbollah in Lebanon”. Hezbollah - which is funded and equipped by Iran - has not commented on the reports. Bowen: Sinwar's death is serious blow to Hamas, but not the end of the warThe Israeli military said three drones were launched from Lebanon, with one hitting a building in Caesarea. They did not confirm whether the building was part of the prime minister's residence, nor the extent of any damage. US outlet Axios reported that the drone did hit the residence. At 08:19 local time (06:19 BST), the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said: "In the last hour, three unmanned aerial vehicles crossed into the country from Lebanon. "Two of the aircraft were intercepted. Another aircraft hit a building in Caesarea, no injuries. "The Israeli prime minister makes use of two private homes, in Caesarea and Jerusalem, and has also spent time at Beit Aghion, his official residence in Jerusalem, which is currently being renovated. The reported attack comes as Israel prepares to respond to Iran's large-scale ballistic missile attack on 1 October - with Israel's defence minister saying its response would be "deadly, precise and surprising". T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 