 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 3034 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-07-30 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Investigation into alleged antisemitism at Olympic football match T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. The Paris prosecutor's office has opened an investigation into possible antisemitic crimes during an Olympic football match. Olympic organisers had lodged a complaint with police, after a "banner bearing a political message was displayed" during a Group D game between Israel and Paraguay on Saturday, a spokesperson said. One fan made "gestures of an antisemitic nature", they add. There have been reports of banners and chants during the game that referenced the ongoing war in Gaza. Neither the Paris prosecutor's office or Olympic officials have clarified the specifics behind the case. During the match some supporters could be seen holding a banner reading: "Genocide Olympics". French newspaper Le Parisien reported that this same group of fans later "mimed provocative gestures of an antisemitic nature", external, citing a police source. There are also reports that Israel's national anthem was booed by parts of the crowd, with news agency AFP reporting that some Israeli supporters chanted back "free the hostages". The match ended in a 4-2 victory for Paraguay. After the game the Olympic organising committee lodged a complaint with police. A Paris 2024 spokesperson said the organisation "strongly condemns these acts". "Paris 2024 is committed to combating all forms of discrimination, which are in every way contrary to the Olympic and Paralympic values. "We would like to remind everyone that the Games are a time for harmony and tolerance," they add. Meanwhile the prosecutors office has said it is also investigating death threats received by three Israeli athletes at the games. The threats were reported by Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin, and the investigation will be led by the national anti-online hate body. The war in Gaza started when Hamas attacked Israel on 7 October last year - killing around 1,200 people and taking 251 hostage. Since then more than 39,000 Palestinians have been killed in Israel's months-long campaign, according to Gaza's Hamas-run health ministry. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 