 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 3106 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-10-07 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Israeli forces proximity to Irish troops in Lebanon 'concerning' T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Israeli Defence Forces' (IDF) proximity to an outpost where a number of Irish troops are stationed is "concerning", according to the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL). Andrea Tenenti from UNIFL says that the IDF are currently a few hundred metres from camp UN-652, reports the Irish state broadcaster RTÉ. The proximity of the IDF to Irish UN troops has caused high levels of concern within United Nations Headquarters as fighting continues between Israel and Hezbollah. President Michael D Higgins said it is "outrageous" that the Israel Defence Forces (IDF) has "threatened" UNIFIL peacekeepers and attempted to have them evacuated from the villages they are defending in Lebanon. Mr Tenenti, who is in Beirut, told RTÉ that efforts are being made in New York to deal with the Israeli permanent mission to the UN in order to get IDF soldiers to move away from the area as their presence compromises the safety of UNIFIL troops. If the IDF refuse to leave the area, the [UN] Security Council will decide how to move forward, Mr Tenenti added. Mr Tenenti explained that troops at the outpost have supplies for a couple of weeks and a convoy is heading to the area and de-escalate the situation. He said there is also concern for troops from other countries as there are 29 other positions that are based near the "blue line". Drawn by the United Nations, the Blue Line is the 120km demarcation line where Israeli pulled back to when they left south Lebanon in 2000. A former Lieutenant Colonel with the Air Corps, Kevin Byrne has told RTÉ's News at One that troops are in a precarious position due to where the UNIFL are stationed. He said that the electricity supply could become problematic as the generators will need re-fuelled to operate and the troops may need a re-stock of food shortly. However Mr Byrne noted that the UNIFIL troops have a high standard of equipment and accommodation. On the anniversary of the 7 October attacks in the Middle East, the Taoiseach and Tánaiste have called for an end to the violence. Taoiseach Simon Harris condemned the attack on Israel carried out by Hamas and has called for the remaining hostages that were taken on 7 October 2023 to be released without conditions. He said: "We cannot, and we will not, ever forget. Neither can we ever tolerate a world in which civilians are systematically subjected to the most brutal violence in their homes, or in which vibrant and peaceful young people at a music festival are terrorised, murdered and abducted. "They are despicable and criminal acts, beyond any sense of humanity or decency. I condemn them utterly and without hesitation. "He paid tribute to families and friends of those murdered, particularly 22-year-old Kim Damti, the Irish-Israeli woman who died at the music festival. Also condemning the attack on the 7 October is Tánaiste Micheál Martin who says that the violence must end and a political process needs to begin. He said: "I think today of the hostages still in Gaza and their families who desperately want them home. I call again for their immediate release,"I recognise the hurt and sorrow of the Israeli people, and of the Jewish and Israeli communities here in Ireland and throughout the world. "I express our profound sympathy to all who are mourning loved ones brutally murdered, and think especially of the family and friends of Kim Damti. " Martin added: "It is not possible to view this anniversary in isolation from the justifiable outrage at the death and destruction suffered by ordinary Palestinians in Gaza over the past 12 months. "Ireland's position is clear and on the record. The violence must stop. "There must be an immediate ceasefire and hostage release deal, and a massive scaling up of humanitarian assistance into Gaza. " T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 