 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 3049 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-09-23 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Irish president accuses Israeli embassy of Iran letter leak T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. The President of Ireland Michael D Higgins has accused the Israeli Embassy in Dublin of circulating a letter he wrote to the President of Iran. The Israeli Embassy in Dublin has labelled Higgins' comments as "baseless", "highly inflammatory and potentially slanderous". The Irish president was criticised last month when the letter to Masoud Pezeshkian became public, following Pezeshkian's appointment as President of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Speaking at the United Nations (UN) in New York on Sunday, Higgins said he believed that his letter had been circulated by Israeli officials. "You should ask where the criticism came from and how the letter was circulated and by whom and for what purpose," Higgins said. Pressed by journalists as to where he believed the letter came from, Higgins said he believed "it was circulated from the Israeli embassy" in Dublin. Higgins said he wrote to congratulate a new head of state and that there had been some interest in re-starting nuclear talks with Iran. He told Pezeshkian that Iran had a "crucial role" in peace in the Middle East following the death of his predecessor, Ebrahim Raisi, in a helicopter crash in May. "I regret of course the circumstances that brought about the election, and take the opportunity to repeat the condolences of the people of Ireland for the deaths of your predecessor President Raisi," the letter read. The letter appeared in the Jewish Chronicle and prompted criticism in both the UK and Ireland. In a statement, the Israeli embassy said: "Unfortunately in Ireland, since the October 7 invasion by Hamas and massacre in Israel, which triggered this awful war, Israel has been subjected to a high level of malicious statements and accusations that have often manifested as incitement to hatred. "This baseless accusation is highly inflammatory and potentially slanderous, and the embassy rejects it completely. "The statement added that it is the "burden of the author to defend its content,  which did not mention the threat Iran poses in the region". The spokesperson referenced the 7 October 2023 Hamas attack on concert goers in Israel when about 1,200 people were killed and more than 250 were taken hostage. The Hamas-run health ministry in Gaza has said more than 40,000 people have been killed in the territory because of Israel's response. A spokesperson for the Irish president's office said: "The exchange of letters upon the coming to office of a new head of state is standard diplomatic practice for countries which share diplomatic relations. "As is usual practice, the letter in question was drafted based on material supplied by the Department of Foreign Affairs and issued via standard diplomatic channels. Such letters have been sent to incoming presidents of Iran for a number of decades. "In response to questions, the president indicated his view that this standard diplomatic letter had been circulated over the summer and presented as being something out of the ordinary. "The president made no accusations of a leak, he solely referred to the letter being circulated. In this context, the question of reporting does not arise. " The Taoiseach (Irish Prime Minister) Simon Harris, also at the UN in New York, has defended the Irish president, stating his concerns was the loss of life in Gaza. Harris said that Israel "is continuing to allow a horrific humanitarian situation continue". "I think the Israeli embassy should be focusing on things other than amplifying, circulating or referencing a letter that does really conform with normal diplomatic protocol between heads of state," Harris said. "Certainly, my focus here in New York is not on an exchange of letters, but is on the fact that there is still a horrific, bloody humanitarian catastrophe unfolding in the middle east. "I have no interest whatsoever in getting into any sort of tit-for-tat or back-or-forth with the Israeli embassy or the government of a country that is continuing to allow this horrific humanitarian situation continue," Harris added. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 