 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 3295 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-10-02 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. UK troops didn't need to engage, says Healey T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. UK forces were ready to engage after Iran launched ballistic missiles on Israel, but they "didn't need to do so", the UK defence secretary has said. John Healey, who is in Cyprus visiting military personnel, said RAF Typhoons were in the air at the time of the attack on Tuesday night, but Israel’s own defences dealt with the threat. He said the nature of the assault was different compared to April when RAF Typhoon jets based in Cyprus shot down Iranian drones. The jets are not equipped to track and target ballistic missiles. Healey said the UK's involvement was part of an effort to prevent escalation and to show the UK’s steadfast support for Israel’s security. The BBC also understands that Royal Navy Destroyer, HMS Duncan, did not fire any of her Sea Viper missiles. Healey thanked British personnel involved for their courage and professionalism. "The UK stands fully behind Israel's right to defend its country and its people against threats. "The defence secretary said he also spoke to his Israeli counterpart Yoav Gallant on Wednesday morning, where he said the UK condemned the Iranian attack. "We continue to support steadfast their [Israel's] right to security, but our biggest concern is to avoid this conflict spiralling out of control and into a wider regional war," Healey said. Follow live updates on this storyVideo shows Iran's missile attack on IsraelWhat we know about Iran's missile attack on IsraelFirst came the alert message, then the boom of interceptionsUS says it helped Israel shoot down Iran missiles Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said it had launched the missiles on Tuesday in retaliation for recent attacks that killed the leaders of the Hezbollah and Hamas militant groups, as well as a senior Iranian commander. Israel said most of the 180 missiles fired were intercepted. US forces were also involved in helping Israel strike down Iranian missiles, confirming that two of its guided missile destroyers - USS Cole and USS Bulkeley, which are based in the eastern Mediterranean - fired a dozen interceptors at incoming missiles. Capt Bill Urban, lead spokesman for US Naval Forces Europe and Africa, said: "Multiple missiles are believed to have been successfully engaged at this time. "Healey's visit to Cyprus will see him meet some of the British personnel preparing for the possibility of evacuating British nationals from Lebanon. Britons in Lebanon have been advised to register their presence with officials on the government's website and a UK-chartered plane is set to leave Beirut on Wednesday. The previously sporadic cross-border fighting between Israel and Hezbollah escalated on 8 October 2023 - the day after the unprecedented attack on Israel by Hamas gunmen from the Gaza Strip - when Hezbollah fired at Israeli positions, in solidarity with the Palestinians. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 