 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 3051 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-08-08 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Israel accepts proposal to attend ‘urgent’ new ceasefire talks T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Israel has agreed to send negotiators to a new round of talks over a ceasefire and hostage release deal, after a diplomatic push from the United States, Egypt and Qatar. The three nations released a joint statement on Thursday pushing for the talks to take place between Israel and Hamas on 15 August in Doha or Cairo. Hamas is yet to respond. The statement said a "framework agreement" was ready and that it had "only the details of implementation left to conclude”. The push for new talks will be seen as an attempt by the US and its partners to stop regional tensions from spiralling out of control, after Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh was assassinated in Tehran last week.  Iran, blaming Israel, has vowed a response - though Israel has not commented directly on the killing. The statement invited Israel and Hamas to restart talks "to close all remaining gaps and commence implementation of the deal without further delay". "As mediators, if necessary, we are prepared to present a final bridging proposal that resolves the remaining implementation issues in a manner that meets the expectations of all parties," it said. The statement was signed by US President Joe Biden, Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi and the Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani. It said the "framework agreement" was based on “principles” previously outlined by President Biden on 31 May, external - which proposed a deal that would start with a full ceasefire and the release of a number of hostages. The UN Security Council, external endorsed that framework. European Union chief Ursula Von der Leyen said she “strongly” supported the efforts to broker a ceasefire agreement. "We need a ceasefire in Gaza now. That's the only way to save lives, restore hope for peace, and secure the return of hostages," she wrote on X, formerly Twitter. UK Foreign Secretary David Lammy said the UK "fully endorses" the plan for talks, adding that it welcomed "the tireless efforts of our partners in Qatar, Egypt and the United States". US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin said in a statement on Thursday evening he had spoken with Israeli Defence Minister Yoav Gallant to brief him on changes to US forces in the region and "reinforce my ironclad support for Israel’s defence". "I also stressed the importance of concluding a ceasefire deal in Gaza that releases the hostages," he said. Despite numerous rounds of talks, the challenge of reaching a ceasefire and hostage release agreement has so far proved elusive. Hamas official Osama Hamdan said in June that the group was pushing for a “permanent ceasefire, a complete withdrawal [of Israeli troops] from the Gaza Strip” and a swap-deal involving Israeli hostages and Palestinian prisoners held in Israeli jails. But Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has previously said the conflict can only stop once Hamas is defeated. On Thursday, Israel continued its bombardment of the Gaza strip. Gaza's Hamas-run civil defence force said it hit two schools, killing more than 18 people. The Israeli military said it had struck Hamas command centres. Any proposed talks could be made even more difficult by Hamas’ decision to elect Yahya Sinwar as its new leader, replacing Haniyeh. Sinwar, who Israel holds responsible for the planning and execution of the 7 October attacks, is seen as one of the group's most extreme figures. Amid fears of an attack from Iran or its allies, Israel’s security cabinet met in an underground bunker on Thursday, instead of its usual meeting place, Israel’s Channel 13 reported. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 