 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2963 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-07-24 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Gaza protest camp set to go after university offer T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. A Gaza war protest camp set up by students could disappear over the next few weeks after a talks offer from their university. Demonstrators set up the camp more than two months ago after raising concerns about Cambridge University's investments in relation to the defence and arms industry. The university has said in an online statement, external that it will discuss a review of "our approach to responsible investment" if the protest camp is closed down. A protest group spokesman told the BBC the announcement was a "step in the right direction" and said a decampment was being planned. University heads said student protesters were concerned that "our current investment" may not be in line with "our institutional values", especially in relation to "the arms/defence industry". They have suggested discussions and the setting up of a "task force" and "working group". "The university’s approach to investment is one of the key issues raised by protesters," said the university in the statement. "The university recognises the strength of feeling within the community. "We therefore commit to working with the task force and the working group to review our approach to responsible investment. "This will include consideration of ways of defining and monitoring defence exposures within investment portfolios. " Mahmoud Atallah, a spokesman for protesters at the camp, indicated that discussions about the university proposal would take place. "We see it as a step in the right direction," Mr Atallah told a BBC reporter when asked about the university statement. "It is obviously welcome. "He added: "Over the next three to four weeks we are planning to undertake a process of decamping. " Mr Atallah, a 23-year-old Cambridge University student who grew up in Egypt, said protesters wanted "divestment" and were in "constant talks" with the university. He said the camp had worked in one sense. "It has worked in the sense of getting the university to listen to us," he said. "We want it work in a much broader, more powerful, context. " The university said it had been "in dialogue" with students for several weeks about the "humanitarian tragedy unfolding in Gaza". "We have respected their right to protest within the law and in line with the community guidelines they set out," the university statement said. "At all times we have been aware of the impact of the encampment on our wider community and provided support and reassurance during what has been a difficult time. "Heads said "several questions" had been asked  about university policy and added: "We have agreed to explore a number of these through our governance processes. "They said proposals for discussing an investment review were, "contingent on the encampment closing down". Follow Cambridgeshire news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, external, Instagram, external and X, external. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 