 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 3206 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-09-25 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. No plans to remove Irish peacekeepers from Lebanon T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. There are no plans to remove Irish peacekeepers from Lebanon despite a warning for Irish citizens to evacuate. The Irish Defence Forces have 382 personnel serving between the United Nations missions in the region. Irish troops have been serving in the region since 1978. More than 90,000 people have been displaced in Lebanon since Monday, according to the UN. Israel's military is carrying out a new wave of "extensive" strikes in southern Lebanon and the Beqaa area. Fifty-one people were killed in Israeli air strikes on Wednesday, Lebanon's health ministry has said. Meanwhile, the Irish government has urged all remaining Irish civilians in Lebanon to leave immediately. "Those not in a position to do so should ensure that they are registered with the Irish Embassy in Cairo," according to the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Taoiseach (Irish PM) Simon Harris, who met the leader of Palestine on Wednesday in New York, condemned the strikes on Lebanon. “We continue to see a dangerous escalation and loss of life in the Middle East," Mr Harris said. “I utterly condemn the bombing of civilian areas in southern Lebanon by Israel and the firing of rockets towards civilian areas in Israel by Hezbollah. “There has been a shocking loss of life this week, but even at this stage it is not too late for all sides to step back from the brink. “Gaza is in ruins and in desperate need of the world’s help. "Mr Harris added that opening a second front in Lebanon would be a "disaster" risking an all-out war with profound consequences for the region and the world. “I have met the United Nations Secretary-General, António Guterres, and received a briefing and situational report on the peacekeeping missing in Southern Lebanon," he said. “Irish troops serving in the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNFIL) are well trained and following all protocols. ''''Their safety is paramount, and the Secretary-General assured me that conditions are under constant review and that UNIFIL is prepared for all eventualities. We agreed to stay in close touch as the situation evolves. " The Tánaiste, (Irish deputy prime minister) Micheál Martin, who is also Minister of Defence, remains in regular contact with the Chief of Staff of the Defence Forces with regard to the ongoing situation. A spokesperson for the Department of Defence told the BBC: "The safety and security of personnel stationed in the region remains of paramount concern to the Tánaiste and to the Government. Defence Forces HQ remains in contact with Irish personnel in the three UN missions in the region; all Irish personnel are accounted for and are safe and well. All Defence Forces’ personnel continue to maintain a high level of vigilance and continue to monitor the developing situation in their respective mission areas. They are complying with UN security precautions, including taking shelter in protected positions as and when appropriate. " T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 