 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2858 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-08-14 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Angus Robertson criticised by SNP colleagues for Israel meeting T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. It's a social media photo that has gone down badly with many in SNP circles. External Affairs Secretary, Angus Robertson, standing alongside Israel’s Deputy Ambassador to the UK, Daniela GrudskyIn a social media post, Ms Grudsky said they had discussed the release of Israeli hostages and that Israel was “looking forward to cooperating” with Scotland in areas including culture and renewables. Many SNP figures are highly critical of Israel’s conduct in the Middle East, and this diplomatic encounter prompted an internal backlash. But Scotland's First Minister John Swinney defended the face-to-face meeting with an Israeli government representative. Mr Robertson met Ms Grudsky on the 8 August, but it was four days later that the Scottish government released a statement about it. A spokesperson made reference to areas of “mutual interest” between Scotland and Israel. The Gaza conflict was addressed in this press release, but not in as strong terms as we’ve heard Scottish government ministers use in the recent past. It outlined that Angus Robertson had “reiterated the Scottish government’s position in calling for an immediate ceasefire by all sides in Gaza. ”And the statement went on to explain that the External Affairs Secretary had called for “the unconditional release of all hostages and the opening of safe routes to allow more humanitarian aid to reach the people of Gaza. ”But there was no specific mention, for example, of civilian deaths in Gaza or of weapons sales to Israel. There’s criticism of both the meeting itself and the tone of announcements made in its wake. Emma Roddick was an SNP Government minister until earlier this year. Before John Swinney posted his justification for the meeting, she told me that she wanted more information about how it came about. The Highland MSP said her “heart just sank” when she saw the photo on social media, adding that she was not comfortable with the engagement. In private, some SNP insiders have expressed their anger in much stronger terms. One MSP told me that Angus Robertson was “an absolute disgrace” for taking part in the meeting, and that he should be sacked from his role as External Affairs Secretary. This simply wasn’t robust enough for a number of SNP figures, who have now gone public with their criticism. The former minister Kevin Stewart branded the meeting a mistake. The Aberdeen Central MSP posted on social media, external: “I hope Angus Robertson also demanded an immediate ceasefire, castigated the IDF for bombing hospitals and schools and told you that Israel should comply with all of the UN Resolutions that have been passed over decades”. That was reposted by Ivan McKee, a serving Scottish Government minister. Another former SNP minister, Elena Whitham, shared the original photo with a sad emoji face posted alongside it. John Swinney posted a statement online, external earlier, acknowledging that some felt a meeting was “not appropriate”. But he stood by the decision to accept the Israeli request. The First Minister explained that he saw it as an opportunity to convey the Scottish Government’s “consistent position on the killing and suffering of innocent civilians in the region. ”It may be the case that Angus Robertson raised this with the Israeli deputy ambassador in private. But it’s not something that was touched upon in detail in the statement the Scottish Government published after the meeting. It’s not the first time that Mr Robertson has prompted a backlash over engagements with foreign officials. Last year he faced criticism after some felt he should have taken a firmer position on China. Unlike in other parties – such as Labour – the conflict in the Middle-East hasn’t sparked division in the SNP. But this diplomatic encounter has prompted real anger in the party. A big part of diplomacy is striking the right tone. But many within the SNP think that the Scottish Government has been tone deaf when it comes to this engagement with Israel. A spokesperson of the Israel Embassy told BBC Scotland News: "As part of the longstanding and positive relationship between Israel and the UK, it is the work of foreign diplomats to engage and foster relations, including with the Scottish Government, through partnerships and frank dialogue. "It is unfortunate that the core principles of diplomacy are being called into question. "We remain resolute in fulfilling our duty to represent the state of Israel, including through advocating for the return of our 115 Israeli hostages who continue to be held by Hamas in Gaza. " T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 