 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2918 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-08-15 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Comedian Reginald D Hunter apologises after antisemitism row   T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Comedian Reginald D Hunter has apologised for an "unfortunate incident" after accusations that jokes at his Edinburgh Fringe show were antisemitic. Two audience members at his Fluffy Fluffy Beavers show, who were believed to be Israeli, objected to a joke comparing an abusive wife complaining about being abused herself to "like being married to Israel". They were heckled by other audience members as they left the venue, with Mr Hunter alleged to have then made a joke about the Jewish Chronicle newspaper being behind a paywall, saying it was "typical Jews". Police Scotland told the BBC that it was investigating the incident. Pressure group Campaign Against Antisemitism were among those who criticised the comedian. Mr Hunter, who has previously been nominated for the Perrier award and has appeared on many British TV shows, posted on social media, external about the incident at Assembly’s George Square Studios venue. He wrote: "There was an unfortunate incident in my new show Fluffy Fluffy Beavers. As a comedian I do push boundaries  in creating humour, it's part of my job. "This inevitably creates divided opinions but I am staunchly anti-war and anti-bully. I regret any stress caused to the audience and venue staff members. "Mr Hunter then re-posted messages of support, including one saying "stop saying 'antisemitism' to shut down criticism of the actions of Netanyahu/Israel. " The incident had first been reported by the Daily Telegraph, whose critic Dominic Cavendish was reviewing the show, external. Mr Cavendish called it the "most unpleasant comedy gig I’ve ever attended" and said that audience members had "erupted" with abuse towards the Israeli couple, calling them "genocidal maniac" and telling them they were not welcome at the gig.  Campaign Against Antisemitisim said on social media that the comments were "extremely concerning" and that comedians should "have a responsibility to their audience". A Police Scotland spokesperson said the force was "reviewing the circumstances" of the incident.  In February, the comedian Paul Currie unveiled a Palestine flag during his show and became embroiled in a row with an audience member, telling the man to leave immediately. The man later said he felt threatened leaving as other audience members shouted abuse at him. More than 40,000 Palestinians have been killed in the ongoing Israeli campaign in Gaza, according to Gaza's Hamas-run health ministry. The Israeli offensive came after Hamas-led gunmen killed about 1,200 people in an attack on Israel on 7 October, capturing 251 others as hostages. Mr Hunter repeated the joke at the centre of the row during his Edinburgh Fringe show on Thursday night, receiving laughter and applause from his audience. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 