 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 3230 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-11-30 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Pro-Palestinian demonstrators march through London  T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Thousands of pro-Palestinian demonstrators have been marching through central London to reiterate their calls for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza. The march organised by the Palestine Solidarity Campaign (PSC) and saw demonstrators walk from Park Lane to near Parliament. It comes amid heavy police presence - with a counter protest by the pro-Israel Stop the Hate group taking place on the route - and on one of the busiest shopping days in the capital in the lead up to Christmas. The Metropolitan Police issued a reminder to the marchers that expressing support for militant groups Hamas or Hezbollah is a criminal offence - with both being proscribed terror organisations in the UK. Officers said chanting slogans, wearing clothing and displaying articles including flags, signs or logos that express support for the groups would amount to an offence. Speeches took place outside Parliament in Whitehall, with demonstrators told  finish by 16:30 GMT. The Stop the Hate supporters gathered on the march's route, on Coventry Street, near Piccadilly Circus. The two groups were separated by metal barriers and a row of police. Jon Savell, Scotland Yard's Deputy Assistant Commissioner, who is in charge of Saturday's police operation, said the Met worked with organisers to "minimise disruption" and "balance the right to protest". He said: "Ahead of the weekend we have been in regular discussions with the PSC, counter-protesters Stop the Hate, as well as faith and community groups - particularly the Jewish community who we know continue to be impacted by protests - residents, and businesses. "The officer added there were also "many people shopping during the Black Friday sales, and visiting the capital ahead of the festive period, including Winter Wonderland in Hyde Park which is nearby". Israel launched a campaign in Gaza to destroy Hamas in response to the group's unprecedented attack on southern Israel on 7 October 2023, in which about 1,200 people were killed and 251 others were taken hostage. More than 44,000 people have been killed and more than 104,000 injured in Gaza since then, according to the territory's Hamas-run health ministry. The London march was the 22nd since the conflict began, according to the PSC. It also comes in the week a ceasefire deal was reached to end 13 months of conflict between Israel and the Lebanese armed group Hezbollah. Meanwhile, the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, his former defence minister, Yoav Gallant, and Hamas's military chief, Mohammed Deif, who were all accused of crimes against humanity for their roles in the Gaza war. The UK would respect its legal obligations when it comes to the arrest warrant, Downing Street has indicated. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 