 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 3201 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-10-05 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. New flight chartered for Britons to leave Lebanon T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. The UK government is chartering another flight for British nationals to leave Lebanon on Sunday, as it urges people to exit the country which is gripped by conflict. More than 250 UK citizens have already left on chartered flights. As of Friday morning, more than 2,000 British nationals had registered their presence in the country, the Foreign Office said. The flight will be the fourth specially organised by the government. British nationals who have registered their presence will be sent details on how to request a seat. The Foreign Office said there were no more scheduled flights because of a "decrease in demand". However, the situation will be kept under constant review. As of last month, there were thought to be between 4,000 and 6,000 UK nationals, including dependants, in Lebanon. "Based on our contacts so far, we also anticipate that only a fraction want to leave due to their strong ties in the country," the Foreign Office added. Neighbouring Israel began a ground invasion of Lebanon this week in its battle with the country's powerful Hezbollah militant group. Live updates: Explosions in Beirut after Israel warns people in southern suburb to leaveIt has bombed Hezbollah targets in the capital Beirut. British nationals and their spouse or partner, and children under the age of 18, are eligible, external to take the new chartered flight, with vulnerable people a priority. Some have been able to leave on commercial flights - a limited number of which are still operating - but said empty seats were hard to find. The Foreign Office earlier said it was working to increase capacity on commercial flights for British nationals, and that around 700 troops and government staff had been deployed to Cyprus for "contingency planning". Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer urged British nationals still in the country to come forward to be evacuated, saying: "Now is the time to leave, we have got the plans in place. "Foreign Secretary David Lammy said: "The situation in Lebanon remains volatile, so I am glad that we have helped the many people who have heeded our advice to leave the country immediately. "With demand falling, and the security situation deteriorating, there is no guarantee other options to leave quickly will become available. "I urge anyone who wants to leave to register now. " You can get in touch via this form. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 