 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 3185 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-10-03 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Missile attack on Israel lays bare deep divisions among Iranians T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Iranians have been expressing a mixture of pride, uncertainty and fear since their country launched a large-scale ballistic missile attack on Israel on Tuesday night. Within minutes of the attack starting, Persian social media feeds were filled with shaky videos showing the flashes of the missiles flying overhead. Iran’s state television broadcast pictures of groups of people cheering on the streets, waving flags and chanting “Death to Israel”. But the mood was different online, with not everyone expressing support for the attack. Some shared tense scenes and heated debates about a possible war between the arch-foes, after decades of keeping their conflict largely in the shadows. The contrasting reactions laid bare the deep divisions in Iran, where there is widespread discontent at the clerical establishment and frustration over the economic troubles caused by sanctions. On one side of the debate are those who support the government's actions with nationalist pride, while on the other are those who fear war, economic collapse and further suppression of domestic reform movements. Iran’s Revolutionary Guards said Tuesday’s missile strike successfully targeted Israeli military and intelligence bases and that it was retaliation for recent killings of the leaders of its allies Hamas and Hezbollah. The Israeli military described the attack as "indiscriminate" and said that while it had been largely thwarted by air defences, there had been casualties and millions of Israelis had been sent running to bomb shelters. Israel's prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu has warned that Iran will pay for the "big mistake". For many supporters of the Iranian government, the attack represented a proud moment of defiance. “Bravo to [Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali] Khamenei! Bravo to the Revolutionary Guards!” shouted a young woman in a clip that went viral. Such sentiment frustrated other Iranians online. “Please distinguish between the people and the Revolutionary Guards; we are under immense pressure,” pleaded a middle-aged man in a video shared on social media. Some Iranians felt the strike was an unnecessary provocation that would only result in making their lives worse. “We have no choice but to protect our country, but we are the ones who suffer the consequences,” said a concerned resident of the capital, Tehran. In the hours after the strikes, rumours surfaced that Israel might respond by targeting Iran’s oil infrastructure, which is an important part of the country’s economy. Videos quickly surfaced showing petrol stations overwhelmed, with long queues of people as they rushed to fill up their vehicles, fearing future shortages. The missile attack has also diminished hopes for diplomatic progress with the West and other countries in the region. The election of Masoud Pezeshkian as the new president in July had sparked optimism among those with moderate views. Some people saw him as a potential bridge in easing regional tensions. But one BBC Persian viewer lamented that “this attack is another step away from diplomacy and a step closer to conflict”. “I fear this war might be used as an excuse to intensify the crackdown of us, who are fighting for freedom,” a young activist said, referring to the nationwide “Woman, Life, Freedom” protests that erupted two years ago. Many worry that a new conflict could not only undermine calls for reform, but also empower the government to further suppress internal dissent. Unlike after previous escalations, this time there’s a growing fear of a potentially strong retaliatory response from Israel. And many believe that Israel’s advanced military capabilities could bring unprecedented destruction if a full-scale war broke out. “No-one wants war, not the people, not even the officials,” said a commentator on social media. This sense of vulnerability has made the situation feel more precarious than ever before. Amid the growing tensions, some people even called for regime change. “The only way to save Iran is not through war, but through toppling the current regime,” said another BBC News Persian viewer, urging the West to support Iranians in their struggle against the government. However, many believe the country’s future should be decided internally, free from any foreign intervention, to avoid the potential chaos that outside interference might cause. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 