 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 3241 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-08-20 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Robertson not considering position over Israel meeting T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Angus Robertson says he has not considered resigning over a controversial meeting with Israel's deputy ambassador to the UK. The external affairs secretary has faced a backlash, including from some SNP colleagues who are highly critical of Israel’s conduct in Gaza. Mr Robertson said First Minister John Swinney was aware of the meeting taking place but the pair had not discussed it in person. The Scottish government has since suspended meetings with Israel until progress is made in peace talks. Mr Robertson has said he was sorry that the meeting was not "strictly limited" to talks about a ceasefire. He met Deputy Ambassador to the UK, Daniela Grudsky, on 8 August after accepting an invitation from the Israeli government. Four days later, Ms Grudsky posted a photo, external of the pair on social media. She said they had discussed the release of Israeli hostages and that Israel was “looking forward to co-operating” with Scotland in areas including culture and renewables. That sparked criticism from SNP figures - including former ministers Emma Roddick, Kevin Stewart and Elena Whitham - about the decision to take the meeting. Asked if he had considered resigning, Mr Robertson told BBC Radio's Good Morning Scotland: “No, I haven't, because I think it was right to communicate the message that we did. “But I have reflected very strongly on the impact that it has created and the impression that was created, which is why I issued the apology yesterday. “I most certainly did not want to create an impression that there was a normalisation of relations between the Scottish government and the Israeli government when there is not. ” The external affairs secretary said issues which did not relate to the war were raised by Ms Grudsky, including energy, tourism and economic co-operation. "That meeting was not an appropriate space or time for that meeting to take place," he said. Asked if he spoke to the first minister about the meeting before attending, Mr Robertson replied: “I don't think I spoke about it in person with him, but it was part of the government's internal deliberations, which included an official recommendation to meet that he was aware of. "But it was me who ultimately made the decision that the meeting should go ahead. “Why? Because it would be the first opportunity to lay out the Scottish government and indeed the Scottish Parliament's strong opposition to what is and has been happening in Gaza. "He also Israeli officials were keen to raise issues around antisemitism. Mr Swinney has acknowledged that some felt a meeting, external was “not appropriate”, but stood by the decision to accept the Israeli request. In fresh criticism from within the party, veteran MSP Christine Grahame described Mr Robertson as a "liability" in a leaked email to the first minister, published by the Scottish Daily Mail, external. Meanwhile, SNP MSP Ruth Maguire told the Herald, external she shared the "anger" felt by party members in relation to the meeting. Mr Robertson insisted that it was right for the Scottish government to make its case to the Israeli government. “Scotland's voice does matter," he told Good Morning Scotland. "It won’t change things overnight, of course not, but we have things to say and in this case we call for the Israelis to end what they are doing in Gaza, that humanitarian supplies should be allowed in, that civilians should not be targeted. ”The SNP minister said the meeting was minuted but would be subject to “special considerations that relate to intergovernmental relations”. He added: “I am being absolutely clear about the issues I talked about in the tone and content in which the message was relayed for the need for the Israelis to stop what they are doing in Gaza. ” On the same day that Ms Grudsky posted the photo - 12 August - the Scottish government released a statement referring to areas of “mutual interest” between Scotland and Israel.  The Gaza conflict was addressed in the press release, but not in as strong terms as Scottish government ministers had used previously. There was no specific mention of civilian deaths in Gaza or of weapons sales to Israel. In a statement released on Monday announcing that further meetings with Israeli officials would be suspended, Mr Robertson said the government had been "consistent in our unequivocal condemnation of the atrocities we have witnessed in Gaza". He told Good Morning Scotland the SNP government had "ongoing dialogue" with the Palestinian delegation in the UK. A spokesperson of the Israel Embassy previously told BBC Scotland News that it was the work of foreign diplomats to engage and foster relations "as part of the longstanding and positive relationship between Israel and the UK". They said it remained "resolute in fulfilling our duty to represent the state of Israel". T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 