 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 3244 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-08-19 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. SNP MSP John Mason stands by comment on Israel T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. An SNP MSP who was suspended from the party's Holyrood group over comments about Israel has said he "completely" stands by his remarks. John Mason had the whip removed over the weekend after posting on X that there was "no genocide" in Gaza. He told BBC Good Morning Scotland  that the situation in Gaza was "nothing like" previous examples of genocide. Public Finance Minister Ivan McKee said Mr Mason's comments were offensive, inaccurate and not in line with SNP values.  SNP MSPs will meet to discuss a potential fixed suspension for Mr Mason when parliament reconvenes next month. The withdrawal of the whip means Mr Mason must sit as an independent MSP until it is restored. His post was in response to criticism within the SNP of a meeting which took place between  External Affairs Secretary Angus Robertson and Israel’s Deputy Ambassador to the UK, Daniela Grudsky. The Times has reported, external that the SNP's Dalkeith branch has lodged a motion to the party conference  - which is being held in Edinburgh next week - calling for Mr Robertson to be suspended from cabinet for bringing the party into disrepute. The outspoken backbencher. who represents Glasgow Shettleston, told Good Morning Scotland: “I completely stand by the tweet, which was making the point this is not genocide. “When we look at other examples of genocide, historically, it's nothing like what's happening in Gaza. “And if Israel wanted to commit genocide, you know, sadly, they could have killed an awful lot more people. ” Mr Mason said Israel, as well as Jews in Scotland, felt “very much under threat”. He added: “I would like to see Scotland, the UK, acting more as a peacemaker, rather than cheering on either side. ”Asked about losing the whip, Mr Mason responded: “Sometimes you have to do the right thing and just take the consequences. ”The MSP, who also met Ms Grudsky, said it was Mr Robertson's role to meet people from all around the world, even those he may disagree with. He said: “We're not going to get any solution to this unless people actually talk to each other. "Mr Mason said he sought clarity on how the Israeli government was trying to resolve the conflict and what its aims were but was “disappointed” by the deputy ambassador’s answer. He added: “The SNP exists and is united for Scottish independence, and my hope is that we can focus on that. ” Mr McKee said the party was right to remove the whip from Mr Mason over his comment. "It's deeply offensive, it's hugely inaccurate, and it's not in line with the values of the SNP," he told Good Morning Scotland. The SNP minister said Mr Mason should "educate himself" by reading the United Nations definition on genocide. He reiterated the Scottish government's calls for a ceasefire, humanitarian corridors and the recognition of the state of Palestine. Mr McKee said Mr Robertson's meeting was held to “hold the Israeli government to account and to make clear long standing and continuing opposition to their behaviour”. However, he acknowledged that “many, many people in the party are very angry about the current situation". Mr McKee said there would be “no harm” in providing further clarity about what was said at the meeting. He added: “Angus Robertson is a very experienced politician, and I'm sure he'll be reflecting on what was and wasn't discussed at that meeting. ” The Israeli military launched a campaign in Gaza to destroy Hamas in response to an unprecedented attack on southern Israel on 7 October, during which about 1,200 people were killed and 251 taken hostage. More than 40,000 people have been killed in Gaza since then, according to the territory's Hamas-run health ministry. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 