 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2975 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-10-06 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Glasgow vigil on eve of 7 October attacks anniversary T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. A vigil to remember the victims of Hamas attacks on Israel has been held in Glasgow ahead of the one-year anniversary of the latest Middle East conflict. Hundreds gathered at the steps of Kelvingrove Art Gallery to remember the victims of the 7 October attacks and to demand the immediate release of the hostages. A number of events have been held across the country this weekend to mark the anniversary of the current conflict breaking out. Thousands attended pro-Palestinian rallies in Edinburgh, Inverness and Aberdeen on Saturday, calling for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and to highlight the human cost of Israel's response to the attacks. The war began when Hamas gunmen attacked Israel on 7 October last year, killing about 1,200 people and taking 251 others as hostages. A total of 97 hostages remain unaccounted for. Israel responded with a military campaign in Gaza that has now killed at least 41,825 people, according to the Hamas-run health ministry. Violence has spread to Lebanon in recent weeks. Members of Scotland's Jewish community, including speakers from the Glasgow Friends of Israel group attended the event. The sister of Bernard Cowan, who was killed by Hamas gunmen in Southern Israel during the 7 October attack was also at the vigil. Attendees waved banners with the faces of some of the hostages on them and held red heart-shaped balloons. They sang songs including 'Bring them home' from Les Misérables. One of the vigil’s organiser’s Sammy Stein told BBC Scotland News the event was “crucial” to highlight that there are "two sides to every story". He said: “When the event happened a year ago the news was all about the terrible atrocities that happened in Israel, then after about a week people started forgetting about what happened on 7 October. " Mr Stein continued: “Through the last year the hostages have completely been forgotten and it’s so important to make sure that people remember that they are still in captivity and many of them are already not alive. "What we are doing here is a vigil. It’s respectful, it's quiet and it's for remembrance. "The event we are having today is not just for the Jewish community. There are people here today from all walks of life, all religions and it just shows that in Glasgow there is a huge amount of support. " Phyllis Segal from Glasgow also attended the vigil. She told BBC Scotland News: "I find it heart-breaking that we are a year down the road and we don’t seem to be any further forward. "When I see all these young women, young men and children it’s actually beggar's belief that they’ve been hidden in tunnels for a whole year. "I get very upset about it all. Somebody said ‘do you have family in Israel’ and we say ‘yes, millions of people’ because we are all brothers and sisters. " Ahead of the first anniversary on Monday, the first minister has renewed calls for a ceasefire. John Swinney said: “The strength of world leaders must be focused on an immediate ceasefire in the Middle East – and we know at the heart of this situation is the need for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza. “A lasting ceasefire in Gaza, that sees the secure release of all hostages and a two-state solution, that includes the full international recognition of a sovereign Palestinian state, is critical to ending conflict across the region and is the foundation upon which long term peace in the Middle East can be achieved. "We must also see the end to all arms sales that continue to cause civilian deaths. " T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 