 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 3317 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-10-07 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. US ambassador’s mural visit halted by Gaza protest T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. A group of pro-Palestinian protesters have disrupted an event to showcase a new climate mural in east London where the United States ambassador was due to appear. Jane Hartley was en route to see the work in Shoreditch on Monday morning but was diverted after the demonstrators arrived on the scene. About 25 people turned up at the site of the mural, where they unveiled banners critical of US policy on Israel and waved Palestinian flags. The ambassador told BBC London the 7 October anniversary was a " very sad day" and that she believed "in the right to protest and for free speech". The mural, entitled Rise Above Earth Justice, is the work of artist and activist Shepard Fairey, most famous for his 2008 Obama "Hope" poster. Asked if she thought it was an appropriate day to unveil the mural, Hartley said: "When planned, it was because Shepard was finishing the mural and we wanted to announce it during Frieze Week, external, because we thought it was an example of what art should be doing: getting communities involved, bringing communities together. "We want to get the hostages home; we feel for these families that have suffered such pain. We want a ceasefire and we want humanitarian aid going in to help the people - children, babies, families," the ambassador told the BBC. Fairey created the mural at the suggestion of Hartley, who was appointed as the US ambassador to the UK by President Joe Biden in July 2022. The mural, which was inspired by a series of workshops held earlier this year with young people from London, aims to highlight the importance of climate awareness. Fairey said the mural, which features a 50ft (15m) flower, uses symbols to convey the message that it is "within our power to rise above the injustice of environmental irresponsibility and push for a more healthy planet". The artist said: "I believe that our individual and collective actions will dramatically impact current and future generations, be it for the better or for the worse. It is our responsibility as the citizens of Earth to protect it. "The project was produced by Migrate Art, which donate profits to groups supporting marginalised and displaced individuals and communities across the globe. It was also produced by Charlotte Pyatt and Simon Butler and was funded by the Ford Foundation, with support from the US embassy.  Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, external, X, external and Instagram, external. Send your story ideas to hello. bbclondon@bbc. co. uk, external T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 